muted
microphone. Am I hour
here?
Hi. We're just going to have a short
little stream
today. I've been on site for
Puffer and post a picture in here. I
did. I've been on site for Puffer.
So,
um, we're gonna have some cool stuff
here very
soon. Going to have some
machines. Haven't ordered the machines
yet, and they're going to take a while,
but I'm working on putting that
together. Um,
really, there are a few things I want to
do today.
Um really though, the main thing is just
there's this new experience buffer
refactor that I tried to get some stuff
on done on over the weekend, but I was
traveling and of course I picked the
hardest possible thing to work on to
take with me traveling, not some like
light easy work to catch up on. So we're
going to just look at it a little bit
right now. I'll look at a couple of the
things that I've done. Maybe we'll see
if we can hack something together. I
have a I thought of a way of just
simplifying it for now. That'll probably
be good enough. And yeah, we will go
from there. We will go from
there. I got like very very little
sleep.
So today is just going to
be getting back into it a little bit
day. And then tomorrow when I come
back, we will have full workday on
this. And really over the next couple
weeks, I'm going to try to
like stream a lot, dev a lot, not have
my schedule taken up by like too much
[__] Really just try to crank it on
Puffer. I want to work towards a 2.5
release, maybe a 3.0 release, depending
on how big it is. we'll see what we
version it. That's going to be the goal.
And in order to do that, we need to have
this file right here cleaned up fast and
uh doing what we want. And it's kind of
gotten a bit
bloated. It's gotten a bit
bloated.
So, there's all this crap
here. Yeah. I think what we're going to
do
is we're probably going to staff some of
this.
Well, there's actually a lot of work
here. I don't want to lose it.
All
right, we'll push that. Then I will pull
down the work that I did over the
weekend and I will show you what we're
looking at because uh it's a pretty big
change the way that we are doing things.
And I'm not sure I'm completely happy
with it yet either, frankly.
The idea is that we want to
store Hello, welcome. Thank you.
Um the idea
here so right now we have this way of
storing all of the experience in this
flat buffer. Uh the problem is that
makes it really hard to
do some new techniques that we're
thinking about implementing. Also it's a
little bit slow because you have to sort
the data before you train with it and
you have to like do this big index copy.
So the goal is to come up with a way
to store experience in segments. So you
store in contiguous memory like 128
steps from one environment or something
like that. Uh and we're going to try to
just do that. Now there are a whole
bunch of edge cases where this thing
fails where the previous one doesn't.
Um, and I have some thoughts on how to
work around it, but I think for now
we're just going to do this and we're
going to see what happens. I think
that's what we're going to
do. There are like absolutely ways for
this thing to completely
break.
But I guess this is what we're doing for
now.
I
mean, maybe I should think about it a
little more before we go for it. I don't
know. I already have the code mostly
written. I think it'll be more
interesting to just start writing and uh
see where this gets us.
the
advantages. Okay, so this
is simple version right
here. So this store
oops this is a 2D
buffer of trajectories, trajectory
length. That's all this
does. I was getting some
errors, but they might have been
hardware
specific.
See, no CUDA GPUs. Lovely. I have to
reboot this container.
One second
shape of
mask. Okay, at least we get a real
error.
and length. Okay, so these are very
different. How did I allocate this?
There should be
numros, shouldn't it?
Length of M is one.
This is quickly going to get very
complicated. I kind of want to diagram
some stuff out cuz I don't trust myself
to do this uh zero
shot. I'm on good like four hours of
sleep capacity.
not at all peak
capacity. Okay,
so we have this
buffer where we're going to fill up data
like
this. And these are empty.
There are a few different ways you can
model
this. Post a link to your Neptune
ablation so I can steal charts.
Yes. Hey, Cat.
So the issue here,
right, is when do you fill up this
buffer? It's a very different answer if
we're going to assume it's a puffer
musth.
We really don't want to
break We really don't want to break
learning for everything that's not a
puffer
end. And I don't want two different
buffers.
These are two very different ways you
would implement this
thing. Does this actually even do what
we want? Let me think.
So if you have a very long
episode, how they do J and Dota
And this is yet another reason we want
to delete
J. Causes such
pain. But J is one of the things we're
like anything that I replace it is going
to with it's going to have similar info
requirements. It's tricky.
Where's the uh the sample thing? I was
pretty sure they had a uh a
figure where they talk about their
trajectory buffering. Yeah, right
here. Okay. So 16 time
steps times 16
samples is
128 labeled together J and sent to OP
sent to
optimizer. So they're only rolling out
they're using 128
seconds they're only using 128 steps it
looks like
right to me this figure
says that GA is only computed backward
over 128 steps.
400 frames per policy step. So that's a
frame skip.
So it is truly 128
steps. They have to have played with
that as well,
right? Lambda stays n5.
and J
Horizon. And what's
this? They listed this instead of the
parameter. I don't have a comment on
this.
see equation three. Okay, so they're
just giving this to you in terms of the
equation, but they're not actually doing
this. So this is a little confusing
here, right? This is the this is a good
find though. So they have this equation
that's like one over one minus lambda or
whatever that gives you the time horizon
from the parameter. And they're saying
that look that they're using J over a
horizon of up to 840 seconds or 360 per
rerun. But if you look
here, J is only computing over 34
seconds. So they only get dr ground
truth for J over 34 seconds and then the
rest of it they have to be relying on
the value function bootstrap.
So if this works for
Dota, I mean this suggests to
me that having some fixed buffer
128 is a okay in principle.
Now, the only thing we have to deal with
is like some of these not getting filled
up realistically though,
right? Is this going to be a big
problem? I think realistically not. And
here's why. So the fast m in puffer are
all
vectorzed and uh we're going to get like
contiguous buffers of
data. Is that true?
seems like it should be.
What about the LSTM Hey,
Okay, here there's a paragraph on this.
We train agents on 30 secondond segments
of the
game and any given 30 secondond ground
snippet may not contain the ground
truth. We address this by training these
heads in a similar fashion to how we
train value functions.
If a segment contains the ground truth
label, we use ground truth label for all
time steps. If not, we use the model's
prediction at the end of the segment as
the label.
Oh, but these are just for the head
predictors. I need to think about this
very carefully.
This seems like a fundamental problem
though. You can't collect more than 128
steps realistically or it'll be stale.
And I think data staleness is a bigger
problem than anything.
We also have to think about the
historical replay
here because one of the ideas here is to
add historical
replay. Now that's going to mess it up.
Well, what do we need in order to
compute advantage?
Don't back off.
I'm trying to think the best way to do a
buffer of this
variety. I mean, it's still better to
store them in rows.
as the networks get
larger. Well, we'll deal with that once
we get to it.
Can we just store this like in a
different memory
layout to make it easier?
We probably
could. So basically we would store it in
roughly the format that we have
now like the final format we have now
that's actually mini bath appropriately.
I don't know if I like that though
because how do we swap in new data?
Right. I think our dim is
like mini
batch. What's our dim right now?
Mini batches, mini batch size, PO
horizon. So it would be like all mini
batches a window of mini batch size into
all of
this. Not many patches.
still doesn't fix the LSTM shenanigans
either.
still doesn't fix the LSTM shenanigans.
This is like rapidly getting very
complicated. I don't want the code to be
complicated. How do we think about this
simpler?
The simplest thing I think is just what
I have now.
And the current implementation
should it should end up roughly the same
as the next implement as the uh the new
implementation. I think it should
It is going to get awkward though if you
want a
longer BPT
horizon. Yeah. See they they have this
very separate here. This is the LSTM on
roll and this is J.
Whoops. So, what you want is not 128.
Okay. So, that's off.
I think I can do all of this such that
the final code ends up being pretty
compact. It's just a little tricky.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, we can try this and then
Yeah, I think we just straight up we try
this,
right? LSTM state gets carried, but
that's not a big
deal. And other than LSTM get state
getting carried, this should be
perfectly
correct. This will do BPD over arbitrary
horizons and we will miss like at most a
few small samples.
Let's do
that. What are we going to do about
lengths and indices?
I guess we do it the slow and fully
correct way first.
So episode length is going to
be num
rows and then this is LSTM total
agents and store it in just as number
rows.
And now numbum rows batch size over
horizon. Okay, this is good. So I
actually had this mostly on my first
pass. I just had to go through lots of
different various
alternatives. And uh the key thing is
that we actually do have to do
the we actually do have to do this part
this tricky part
here. So this isn't going to cut it. We
have to do this part.
Full ids is end ID of full
Cool. It
runs. I'm expecting to have broken
everything. Yep. So, we did break
everything. Kind of expected.
But it does
run.
Cool.
Um, so the algorithm here that we have
to get right, there a couple pieces to
this. So there's a whole bunch of
indexing now we have to keep track of
with this
buffer to figure out
essentially where we're storing data.
We need to keep track of how long each
segment is and uh which environment gets
written to reach which
segment. That is
important. None do
Holy cam.
Eval has to reset these buffers
presumably, right?
Every time you call eval, you have to
reset
these or on flatten batch I guess.
Let's just see what's
happening. Okay, so first 2048 m are
done.
Same ID is
here at blends get
reset. That doesn't look right to me.
64. Something's free here.
How do we get 8192 out of
this? 2 M's 2048
each would be 4096. Somehow we have
double
How's this
happen? 4096, right?
Oh, because that's Yeah, that is
separate.
Okay. Yeah, that is
separate. So, this is actually This
looks good to me.
And then you don't even need to do this
either.
Okay,
[Music]
2048. First 2048 M's are
done and explodes.
Okay. What we're going
for? Uhhuh.
Why is free index
zero be like that?
What in the
heck? Oh no. Is this not correct?
All incredibly annoying because the M's
are
async. That's what it comes down
to. The M's are async. It's very
annoying.
Got my GP. Got my guy building an end
for circuits. Might stop by stream
questions. Really excited. Awesome. I'm
half dead today from uh traveling at odd
hours. So, Uh, I do have pretty much
from tomorrow for the next few weeks,
it's going to be a lot of just me
sitting here streaming and building
stuff. So, it's good
timing. The new facility is going to be
really cool. I got to figure out when
I'm going to put the GPU order
in. Oops. Hang on.
And that's actually my call to end
stream. Did prices go down? Uh prices
should be going up with tariffs, I would
think, but we will have to look at
things. Um anyways, I got to go. I got
to get some food. Uh, I will be back
probably tomorrow. Honestly, I'm
exhausted. But the goal is going to be
to get this new experience buffer
working
tomorrow and
hopefully really clean up this file. Uh,
so that the dev branch can be like good
usable code in addition to being ultra
ultra fast with all the new features.
So, thanks folks for those of you who
drop
by. If you're interested in following
this over the next few weeks, all my
stuff's at puffer.ai. AI. If you want to
help us out for free, start the repo.
Really helps. Join the Discord to get
involved. And other than that, follow me
on X for more RL content. Thanks since
you're